some of the studies I was looking at
shows that if you get married after 30
each additional year of age increases
your chance of Divorce by
5% I couldn't figure out why oh I think
there are several reasons for this so
first of all Lor goly renowned
psychotherapist bestselling author
coup's counselor who's helped thousands
of people find or save their
relationships people use the first date
as I'm supposed to feel this one thing
or else forget it and people will come
into therapy and say I didn't feel like
butterflies so I'm not going to go out
with him again people said they wouldn't
go on a second date with somebody
because he ordered tap water he must be
really cheap there was one where
somebody said oh he did this impression
from Austin Powers Yeah Baby he just
nervous he was trying to make you laugh
what about he asks to split the bill
would that be an ick if he doesn't pay
that would be a huge ick for me really
but it's really important to understand
why which is interesting now your
partner has to be your best friend have
the same interest he has to Rock My
World in better someone who's really
ambitious but also really family
oriented no one human could possibly do
that if you look at what are the most
important things that would predict
whether a relationship is going to last
is really important are very important
and then
emotional is really important what does
that mean it
means you went to therapy because of
heartbreak yes how do we navigate
through that dark cloud one strategy
that might be helpful
is
it's absolutely crazy to me that so many
of you have decided to watch our show um
and so many of you have decided to
subscribe to our show we now have five
million subscribers on YouTube which is
a number that I just can't comprehend
and it's a dream that I absolutely never
could have had we started the dire of a
CO just over three years ago now and in
my wildest expectations we might have
had 100,000 subscribers by now so you
can imagine how shocked I am that so
many of you have chosen to tune into
these conversations every week um and
spend some time with us so thank you and
I made a deal with you I made a deal
that if you subscribe to the show that
we would continue to raise the bar and
in
2024 we're going to raise the bar like
never before I've been working for the
last N9 months on a surprise for all of
you that have subscribed to the show and
I'm very excited to deliver that for you
the production's going to change we're
going to go even further with our guests
and we're going to tell even more Global
stories so as always if you appreciate
what we're doing here the simple free
favor I'll ask from you is to hit the
Subscribe button let's get on with the
[Music]
episode
Lori if you had to summarize what it is
you have done for people over the last
couple of decades how would you
summarize that I would say that I help
people to learn what gets in their way
from living the life that they want to
live and what department of their life
do you tend to focus on all of them
they're all so important but I think
it's really about people's relationships
and I mean relationship to self what is
going on with the way that I talk to
myself the way that I make decisions and
choices the way that I hold myself back
relationships with friends with romantic
partners with family members with um
professional colleagues all of it and of
all of those subcategories what are the
categories within there that people come
to you advice for most often through
your podcast through your articles
through your therapy work well it's
interesting because it's usually
somebody coming in and saying I really
want something in my life to change and
what they want to change is someone
else right and so I think what they're
surprised to find is that yes there are
difficult people in their lives you know
we like to say that before diagnosing
someone with depression make sure they
aren't surrounded by so um you
know there are really difficult people
out there but the question is where's
your agency what are the choices that
you're making um are you setting
boundaries with these people are you
adding to the tension between the two of
you because you're kind of in a dance
and you're doing some old pattern that
you're in with this person so I think
it's really important to become
self-aware and say what am I doing in
the world that gets me closer to the way
that I want to live and what am I doing
in the world that keeps me from getting
there
and since you got into this line of work
and since your sort of Education in this
area began what TR changes have you seen
in the types of questions and the types
of issues that are being presented to
you in a sort of clinical setting or
online or through your DMs Etc I think
most people are really seeking
connection of some sort that they don't
have in their lives and there's a sense
of being alone whether it's I'm the only
person who feels this way I'm so ashamed
I don't know why I'm so anxious or I'm
so depressed or it's a feeling of I feel
like I'm I have all these sort of
friends you know kind of peripherally or
friends in the world if you look at
their social media but they don't really
have someone that they could call and
say I really need to talk to you about
this who's this person you can confide
in you know there are these studies that
have been done where they they looked at
you know several decades ago how many
people said I have someone close that I
can call and most people had at least
some one usually a few people now most
people have zero people they have said
zero I have nobody that I can call and
confide in in that deep way does that
mean that there's a greater pressure Now
put on our romantic Partners to meet
more of our needs yes absolutely and
that's one of the things that I think
you see in dating especially with
younger Generations because it used to
be that your community was there to meet
all different kinds of needs so now it's
you know people like to say well my
partner is my best friend well but you
also have a best friend most people also
have a best friend right so so what
happened or maybe they don't anymore
because of what we've been talking about
so the question is now your partner has
to be your best friend where they are
there to meet all of your emotional
needs whereas before you had you know I
could talk to this friend about this and
I had this friend that my partner
doesn't like this hobby but I get to go
my partner doesn't like move these kinds
of movies but I could go to these kinds
of movies with this person or you know
whatever it is and now it's like we have
to kind of have the same interests and
we have to be able to talk about all the
same things and we have to you know he
has to Rock My World in bed or she has
to Rock My World in bed or they have to
um read my mind right and so no one
human could possibly do that there is no
human who can do that and so what
happens is we think something's wrong
with this relationship if I'm not
getting that from this person and what
are the other sort of big picture items
that are making it harder for us to be
satisfied romantically these days I
think again the sort of expectations of
what it means to be loved I think that
when people really put everything into
this other person they aren't getting
the the kind of emotional nourishment
that they would be getting from the
larger community so whether it's
extended family that used to be around
most people a lot of people don't even
live where their F where they grew up
anymore so they're kind of putting down
Roots somewhere else um they are kind of
you know they have to form like a whole
new group of people there's something to
be said for the people who knew you when
you were young there's something about
that about really being known because I
think in relationship people really want
to know and be known I remember I had a
couple come in and this was so striking
to me where um she said to her husband
you know what three words I really want
to hear and he said I love you and she
said no I understand you and that was so
profound that how deep a yearning we all
have to want to be understood and I
think that that comes from you know you
have history with people and you have
shared experiences with people but we're
moving around so much nowadays that we
don't have that history or those shared
experiences and people didn't know us at
different times in our lives when you're
truly known oh you went through this
transformation or you went through this
difficult time or I remember that fun
time we had when we were 16 years old
and so a lot of people just don't have
those kind of deeper connections anymore
what is it about being understood
that we want like what is it what is the
fundamental there is it does it make us
feel psychologically safer or what what
is it oh it makes us less lonely okay if
you feel like you're the only one who
understands what's going on for you
you're all alone and that's why it's so
interesting you know having the dear
therapist podcast or having the column
where where most people write in and
think that they are alone and yet I have
thousands of people writing in the same
exact thing so they're not alone but
they think that they're alone they feel
no one understands or no one would
understand and I see this more with men
also than with women although both I get
that but it it's interesting because I
think that with with men you know often
they'll come into therapy men get into
therapy sort of one of two ways they
either come in because they're in a
couple and there's a problem in the
relationship so they come into therapy
or they come in kind of secretively like
you know no one knows I'm here and
they'll say I've never told anyone this
before and the thing that they tell you
is something that women will talk about
quite easily and it's not that men are
less deep than women it's that women
feel more comfortable to over lunch with
a friend say something like that and
when women come in and they say I've
never told anyone this before they'll
say except for my mother my sister
sister my best friend so they've told a
few people maybe one person maybe two
maybe three and so I think it's
interesting because I think that um you
know men can be particularly lonely
because they really don't have the place
to kind of connect in the way that women
are more culturally acceptable to do so
women sometimes have an expectation that
their partner will open up in the same
way that their best friends will open up
yeah and
many men fall short of that expectation
I you know I think there's often a
narrative that women want a man to kind
of sit down and talk about his problems
and open up and listen and all those
kinds of things that a woman might do
with her best friends but men for some
reasons tend to struggle with that yeah
well they they women want that and they
don't want that so women say they want
that and they think that they truly mean
it when they say they want that but in
coup's therapy I I'll see something like
a woman will come in and and you know
she'll say that exact thing to her
partner you know I really want you to
open up I feel like we're not connecting
I want you to be more vulnerable with me
I want you to tell me what's going on
inside and if he does and let's say he
starts crying tears up or really starts
crying she inevitably will have this
reaction of I don't feel safe when he
doesn't open up to me because I don't
feel connected to him but I don't feel
safe when he's that vulnerable with me
either because there's something just
some cultural programming in her around
what it's like to be with a man who's
crying or a man who is vulnerable and so
I think that that's really problematic
and I think that makes it you know kind
of harder for men to feel like well I
have a safe space to open up like it
takes a lot for a man to really feel
like oh this is something that I want to
share whereas I think women just feel a
lot more free to do that with their
Partners I saw a video yesterday that
I'm actually going to play to you cuz I
saved it ahead of this conversation it
caused a lot of discussion online on
Twitter okay so this is the video okay
yeah I just want somebody who's so
obsessed with the Bible and so obsessed
with Jesus and who understands and like
he said like who can teach us things
yeah like I want my dude to speak in
tongues and have tattoos I just want a
good man like a nice classic man I want
somebody who will literally protect me
and beat someone's butt if they need to
but also will sit there with compassion
and just like a good hearted man that's
what a true man is there has to be that
dichotomy it's the same thing with
feminine women too there's always a
dichotomy there's a softness and a
strength and for men being masculine is
being able to beat someone's butt you
know maybe not physically but like being
a protector and like doing what he needs
to do to protect his family but then
also being soft enough to like be able
to tend to his wife's feelings and like
to be
a that's hilarious but that that's
that's you know people would say well
I'm not like that but yet when you
actually talk to people about when you
when they're dating and you're talking
to them about what's going on and why
they're not going out on another date
with somebody or you know why they won't
even go on a first date with somebody um
those are the kinds of things that's an
exaggerated version of the kinds of
things that you will hear which is what
kind of things like the they're they're
not 6'4 they're not strong and soft at
the same time yeah yeah you know they
have to be this and this these two you
know they want someone who's you know I
want someone who's really really
ambitious but also really family
oriented I want someone right the these
kinds of things that are hard to find
both of those in equal measure in the
same person someone who's extremely
ambitious he probably going to spend a
lot of time at work you know I want some
you know someone so I'm 5'2 and it would
be you know someone like me saying you
know and and he has to be over 6 feet
really you know just all all of these
kinds of things I so in in my book marry
him I I wrote a whole book about this
because I was looking at how do we date
today and what are the expectations that
we have and you know the the publisher
called it marry him the case for
settling for Mr good enough it's not
about settling at all it's actually
about having higher standards not lower
standards but having higher standards
about the things that actually matter so
I looked at all of the data and I talked
to uh behavioral economists and
sociologists and historians and I talked
to um you know people therapists who
specialize in divorce who specialize in
couples therapy and it was really
interesting to hear um to see like how
expectations have changed over time and
then also to see what it is that
actually matters to have a happy
fulfilling long lasting relationship and
how when we're dating we're not even
looking at those qualities and so for
example the character qualities if you
look at what are the most important
things that would predict whether a
relationship is going to last what
qualities do you want in a partner
flexibility is really important what
does that mean so flexibility meaning
you're not a really rigid person people
who are really rigid has to be this way
I need it this way um I expect this of
you right you know on social media we
might call that uh boundaries right now
and boundaries are really important
don't get me wrong healthy boundaries
are very important but rigidity is when
you say that well I'm just very
boundaried but you're actually really
rigid so we have to have flexibility we
have to have room for the person to also
be them and that you are a separate
person from the person that you're with
and often times it's hard for people to
see that because they're so focused on
what I need without thinking about what
does this relationship need and what
does the other person need too emotional
generosity is really important that you
give someone the benefit of the doubt
that you're not bringing your your Old
Wounds into the relationship and
projecting them onto your partner um so
I would call emotional maturity or
emotional stability so many times people
Overlook that when they're dating so
that looks like you know someone comes
into therapy and they say I don't
understand why you know I I I love him
so much and I don't understand why he
didn't call when he said he would or I
don't understand why he
cancelled and I will say what do you
love exactly do is this how you want
your life to go to always be on edge to
always wonder to be with someone who's
unreliable who doesn't do what they say
they were going to do what what part of
this do you love oh but he's so funny
and attractive and you know um he's so
smart you like qualities about him but
you don't like the way he is with you in
relationship and so people need to have
higher standards about the character
qualities things that are important to
them like loyalty reliability emotional
stability um again emotional generosity
can they be supportive of you when
things are going well for you on that
point of expectations and how
expectations are evolving I found some
stats I think some of them are very much
inspired by your first book um marry him
one of them is that 80% of women want to
date a man over 6 foot tall when only
15% of men are over six foot tall yes
that's that's in the book um I found
some other studies uh an e-harmony study
found that 40% of sing people have deal
breakers that are associated with
physical appearance and 50% of singles
expect their partner to be their best
friend soulmate and to fulfill all of
their emotional needs that was a study
done by
match.com um and then the other ones
that I found quite interesting were you
talk about in the book how this sort of
generational shift in expectations and
where that's come from but in like my my
granddad's generation or even my dad's
generation I would assume they wouldn't
have had the same set of impossible
expectations I would assume is that is
that what you found in your research I
think everybody wants to feel that
really deep connection with their
partner and so I think that the way that
Society has improved is that we are not
just marrying for sort of practicality
but we are also marrying because we
genuinely enjoy being with this person
and want to go through life with this
person but I think what we're losing a
little bit is do our values align like
the Practical part matters so I think
the pendulum swung in the other
direction went from almost pretty much
all practical MH to now it's all like is
this person my soulmate and do they move
me and I think you have to have both I'm
really attracted to this person's
Essence and what I mean by Essence is
you're you know most people will say
this is I I I I don't know where the
study came from but I remember reading
this study that most people will say
that the person that they are that they
chose to spend their lives with is not
the most attractive person they ever
dated and I think that a lot of people
say well I wouldn't want my partner to
think that but you're you're more
attractive to your partner holistically
that's why they chose you that's why you
chose them that's why you're together so
it's not just about is this the person
who was the most you know the hottest
person you've ever dated and so I think
we really have to think about
holistically who do we want to be with
and that's what kind of trips us up
because the Practical side matters
do you have similar ideas about the kind
of life you want to live do you have
similar ideas about um how if you want
to have kids or if you don't want to
have kids and how many you might want to
have where you want to live um what
kinds of What kinds of things you want
to do in your lives um what matters to
you who you are in the world um
political beliefs often people say well
that doesn't matter as much um I think
when you have very different views not
necessarily about like what politic iCal
party you're with but more about how you
see the world if you see the world very
very differently that can cause a lot of
problems in the relationship later on
not because you're fighting about the
world but because those differences will
show up in the way you treat each other
I I hear you're saying all of that and I
have to say I agree and I think everyone
would really agree because it makes
perfect sense but in reality I was
thinking about if I turn to some of my
friends that are really struggling with
dating right now and I said all of that
to them um I don't think any of it would
work because they are so
hardwired to to be in search of this
like perfect person you know when I when
I speak to some of my friends who are
single and they're say they're over 35
they've really like never been in a
relationship before this the things that
they say as reasons for why they're not
giving this person a chance are so
unbelievably Petty like I have one
friend and she knows who she is she's a
very good friend of mine she's been a
good friend of mine for more than a
decade shout out to your friend yeah but
I was I was on her profile once and she
told me that the reason she wasn't going
to give this guy a chance on this dating
app was because in the back of the
picture that he his display picture he
had boxes on top of his
cupboard and she was like oh God he's he
puts boxes on top of his cupboard like
she so that's why she didn't give him a
chance so here's here's the thing what
happens is people look at dating
profiles and going through the apps and
I think you know men and women tend to
do this a little bit differently men are
like am I attracted to this person Swip
which also doesn't necessarily work out
for them like they're not really looking
for who do I want to be with and women
do the opposite they look at it at you
know they look at all the pictures
they'll read everything that the person
wrote as if do I want to marry this
person potentially or not as opposed to
do I want to spend 45 minutes having
coffee with this person that's really
different and also on a first date it's
the same mentality where a lot of people
think oh you know like people will come
in to therapy or even friends will say
you know I went on this date I had a
good time it was fun I just I don't know
I didn't feel chemistry I didn't feel
like butterflies I didn't I wasn't
didn't feel that that what I feel like I
should feel so I'm not going to go out
with him again and I'll say well why
don't you just go spend you know another
hour with this person and get to know
this person and see if something
develops no no no no no right and so but
it's like you had a good time you did
think they you know they said I did
think he was attractive but I didn't
feel chemistry so it's interesting
because there's a study in marry him
where it was a longitudinal study and it
followed people from the time that they
met their partner like that first date
all the way through they checked in with
them every five years for I think 20
years and what happened was they found
that the people who were very happy
together had kind of revisionist history
about what it was like on their first
date so people who were really happily
married said oh yeah I knew immediately
I felt immediate chemistry with this
person I knew this person was the one
but if you go back to what they reported
at the time often they reported at the
time yeah nice person not
sure okay so so but they've changed the
story they really truly believe that
they felt something different but we
have data saying no you didn't on the
other hand if people did not last if
people are divorced that kind of thing
um they will say oh I was never
attracted to the person or I knew there
were red flags in the beginning but
that's not what they reported at the
time at the time they reported wow this
person's amazing so it's really
interesting that people use the first
date as as like I'm supposed to feel
this one thing or else forget it when
people who were very very happy together
totally in love totally attracted to
each other often didn't feel those
Sparks on the first one two three dates
you know maybe they were even even
friends for a while but people don't
give each other the chance to get to
know the other person or to let the
other person get to know you and I think
that because the apps give this illusion
of um so many people are juggling
multiple people at a time so someone
will'll go on a date with someone and
then they'll say yeah that was fine H
not you know maybe it was like a seven
so n and then they they're like I have
another date tomorrow or they just
they're leaving the date and they're
walking to their car they're swiping on
the apps already because they have the
illusion there's so many people out
there but if you just keep juggling
people you're never going to get to know
anybody and to know if that person is
someone that you want to be with so what
would you say to a Serial data then you
would say to go on the second date even
if the person is a seven or is there CU
I know so I know people that have gone
go on hundreds of dates a year and I
think statistically they must have met
someone that they would have been happy
with by now yeah maybe it depends if
they're making good choices about who
they go on dates with so some people
will just go on dates to go on dates
other people if they're being really you
know if if they're saying hey this
person seems like someone I would want
to be with and that's who they choose to
go on a first date with then yes but I
would say the question you ask yourself
at the end of a first date is did I have
a good time the answer is yes I would go
on a second date doesn't have to be I
had a lifechanging
transformative you know I was Cupid's
arrow shot me no it just did I have a
good time with this person yeah go on a
second date see what happens the second
time who has higher expectations
typically men or women and who is most
likely or most willing to adjust their
expectations um I think it really
depends on the person and I think that
the expectations are higher in different
areas I think for men um the
expectations are very high around
physical
appearance and and I think for the
younger generation especially because
they're growing up on all of these
thirst traps that are posted on social
media and they're seeing all of these
girls just posting you know all of these
really provocative pictures that have
been filtered that have been you know it
took them 30 shots to get that one shot
that they put up and so when they see
people in real life and what they really
are like on a day-to-day basis they have
these very unrealistic expectations and
I think that's different from in the
past when you saw many more people in
real life than you do now where you're
seeing more people online most of the
time and I think for women the
expectations are you know I think it's
confused with feminism so feminism is
great I'm a feminist um but I think that
feminism is not this person has to meet
all of these criteria that are not
really human and I go through them in
the book you know the kinds of things
that people say and I have all these
surveys in the book about the kinds of
things people say they're looking for
and they're not finding the right person
and I talk about this study that Barry
Schwarz did he wrote the Paradox of
choice and he looked at the difference
between maximizers and
satisficers and this applies to dating
as much as anything else but you know
the way it doesn't apply the way that
you can look at it the way he did in his
study was he said look if you go into a
store and you want to get some jam and
they have 30 different varieties most
people just leave because they can't
choose they're just they get they get
anxious they don't know what to pick
it's not like more is better if you have
two different choices it's easy you say
oh I like this one and you're really
happy with it the people who did choose
from the 30 they're less happy because
they they're trying to maximize and then
when they taste it and they go home with
it they think oh I wonder what that
other one would have tasted like you
know because there was so many choices
the person who picked from one of the
two is very happy with their choice so
if you look at the kind of dating
analogy it's like I I like to use in the
book I talk about a sweater say you want
a sweater and you know exactly what you
want it needs to be this material so
it's not itchy this color looks good on
you this is the right size this is the
right price this is the style you're
looking for you go into a store and you
find it the satisficer will buy it be
really happy that they found it and
really enjoy it for a very long time the
maximizer will say oh I found this but
while I'm at the mall I might as well
just put this one you know back on the
on the shelf and I will go look at a few
other stores to see if I can find
something that's maybe a little like the
color is a little bit better or the the
price is maybe there's something on sale
or maybe there's something that's a
slightly different material and they
keep looking and then they find
something that's maybe slightly better
in their mind and they buy it they're
less happy with it because then it took
them all this anxiety and energy to find
it and then they find it and they're
always looking over their shoulder well
maybe there's another one maybe there's
a better one maybe there's a different
one and the next time they're walking
and they pass a store window they think
I should have gotten that one so
maximizers think that they're putting in
all the research to find the thing
that's going to make them happiest but
going through that process makes them
unhappy not only by going through that
process but when they get the thing that
they decide on so with dating we want to
be satisficers which means we have very
high standard it's not like oh I'm
satisfied that's enough it's like you're
satisfied because your standards are
very high but you're not always looking
over your shoulder to wonder what you're
missing out on you're not always in this
state of fomo do you see a gender
difference between satisficers and
maximizers at all again it depends on
the person it really does I mean I think
that when you when when you look at the
surveys in marry him women do tend to be
maximizers more than men but I think
that I think that men do have very high
standards but I think that men are also
like after they get over the oh I need
to be with a supermodel and then they
come back down to earth and they say oh
I need to be with someone that I'm
really attracted to which is a different
thing they're much more holistic like
who do they ask the right questions who
do I enjoy being with and I think for
women it's there's so many different
things there you know in marryam I talk
about the things that people said they
wouldn't go on a second date with
somebody over and it was like he ordered
tap water instead of sparkling water he
must be really cheap you know these
assumptions that people make like when
they came by and said which which kind
of water do you want and maybe he's just
accommodating maybe he just said tap
water's fine um or you know he wore this
he wore those kinds of uh shoes with
that kind of belt he doesn't have any
fashion
sense there was one where somebody said
oh he did this impression from Austin
Powers this movie he did this impression
and it was really embarrassing and I I I
was so cringey it was like he was just
nervous he was on a first date and he
was was trying to make you laugh why
don't you go on a second date and if he
does something cringey on the second
date okay then you know but a lot of
times on a first date people are just
really nervous so they did one thing but
the rest of the date was great go on
another date with them do you think it's
really that like in the case of the a
like the Austin Powers impression or
whatever it was is that really the truth
is it was it really that or is there
something else going on in their
psychology where that they've got
commitment issues or you know the cuz I
I just think
surely it it can't be that yeah yeah I I
think you're right I think when you
really get down to it you see that you
know there are reasons that people will
find something wrong with a partner if
they are avoidant of intimacy so you do
see that but also I I write about in
maybe you should talk to someone one of
the patients that I write about is this
young woman uh who I call Charlotte in
the book and Charlotte is somebody who
is in her 20s she's attractive and
professional
successful and um you know like a lovely
person but she keeps going after men who
replicate her childhood and she's not
alone in that most of us if we haven't
really worked through whatever it was
that that we didn't get growing up or
that we got too much of or not enough of
what happens is we end up seeking out
the familiar we end up our
unconscious has our subconscious has
radar for people who are like the person
that hurt us in childhood because it's
our experience of Love even if it wasn't
a positive experience it's the only
experience that we have had of love and
so the imprint that we have is oh that's
love so what happened for Charlotte was
she would meet somebody and he would
seem very different from her parents her
mother was very depressed her father was
very kind of either very present for her
or than abandoning her and um he also so
drank too much and had alcohol issues so
she would find somebody she would think
oh this person's so different from
either of my parents then she'd get to
know him and realize oh wow he drinks a
lot too didn't realize that um except
her subconscious did like she somehow
had radar for that person or this person
yells a lot too or this person is really
inconsistent with me they're either love
bombing me or they're disappearing and I
never know where I stand with them that
was her experience of her father
so if once she really kind of processed
what happened with her family she
started going out with different kinds
of people meaning she started being
attracted to different kinds of people
in that transition period She was like
oh I'm going out with this person but
I'm not he seems really good for me but
I'm not really attracted to him that was
because she was still attracted to sort
of the father and the mother the
different qualities the vicy mom and the
and the unavailable mom and then the dad
who was kind of inconsistent with his
availability and also his temper and his
drinking so it's interesting to see that
she would date people just like that
without realizing it at first that she
was choosing them so I think that one
thing that therapy can really do for
people is to help you see why is it that
you're having trouble meeting someone
why is it that you're having trouble
once you're in relationship with someone
if you get that far maintaining that
relationship or finding someone who's
good for you if you sat down with
someone who had repeatedly made the
choice to date and have one night stands
with people that were clearly
going to hurt them or were clearly not
going to call them back the next day but
they had this pattern of continually
going for people that were clearly
either not interested in them or saw
them as like a one night stand
Transaction what would your assumption
be about that
individual's backstory you know I hate
to make assumptions but I would say in
general what I would probably find would
be that this person um is terrified of
intimacy this person doesn't feel that
any body will love them they feel
unlovable they feel like nobody would
would want to be in a relationship with
them so it's you can't fire me I quit
right so it's I'm not even going to put
myself in that position I know this is
going to be a one night stand I don't
have any expectations I'm empowered
right this is the story they tell
themselves is I'm so empowered that I
don't have to feel I don't have to get
attached look at me I I am above my
feelings but the thing is they're really
terrified of their feelings they're
terrified of being attached they're
terrified of seeing whether somebody can
love them because they're worried that
they're going to get what's
confirmed uh by somebody else which
would be the confirmation would be oh
look I tried I got attached this person
and they didn't reciprocate it or we
dated for a month and then they broke up
with me so see that proves that I am
unlovable and that doesn't prove
anything it just proves that this person
was not the right person for you where
would you start with trying to help
somebody that was in that situation I
would go straight to the the question of
lovability I would go straight to the
question of you know what would it be
like to feel your feelings and how
terrifying is that for you to feel
attached to someone how scary is that to
feel like they are the Arbiter of your
worth and how can we switch that so when
you go on a date it's not will they love
me but am I interested in them do I want
to spend time with them so it's not
about am I going to be chosen but I get
to be the Chooser what is that like
because that person has never been able
to be the Chooser and yes sometimes you
will choose someone who doesn't
reciprocate that but you also get to
choose someone sometimes you will choose
some uh you someone will choose you but
you don't reciprocate that so you just
you know so it's not this person is not
saying whoever you go out with they are
not determining your worth that you know
what your worth is no matter what
happens and I think you really have to
work on the self worth part and where
the story came from because we all come
into therapy with narratives about
ourselves and there's stories that
someone told us about ourselves either
verbally they told us like you're not
good enough you're not this enough
you're not that enough or they told us
with their actions like they they
weren't nurturing to you they didn't
love you in the way that you you saw
other kids being loved and so you took
in this story of I must not be lovable
jumping back to something you said
earlier because I was thinking about
this the the dis the general disc
amongst men and women these days you
used the word feminism earlier there's
been a lot of changes in
society's expectations and um views of
the role of a man and a woman in a
relationship but more broadly in the
workplace in society and this has caused
a lot of interesting dynamics that I
think might be having an impact on um
people's expectations and their amount
of satisfaction in dates some of the St
studies I was looking at ahead of your
arrival today was one study that shows
that 71% of people say it's very
important for a man to be able to
support family financially to be a good
husband or partner but by comparison
only 32% say it's very important for a
woman to do the same thing and that's
Pew research survey um but also another
study that said this is on Sage journals
that men showed less attraction towards
women who outsmarted them and when you
look at the changes in income and
intellect in 1980 women earned about 60%
of what men did but by 2020 that had
risen to
83% and there's obviously still issues
with uh gender pay gaps and and such but
what we're seeing here is the kind of
macro trend is that women are more
educated and have more money the
expectation that a man is going to be
the provider in the household still
persists and men don't want to date
again speaking generally According to
some studies that show attraction
references women that outsmart them
right so the the interesting thing is
that when people say you know I want I
want to have flexibility meaning a lot
of women will say this I want to have
they'll say I absolutely expect that I'm
going to have a career but I also don't
want to be the sole provider for the
family um and if they're really honest a
lot of women will say I would like my
husband to earn more than me at the same
time more women are getting college
degrees more women are getting graduate
degrees more women are getting ahead of
men in those areas and so women will
also say and I want someone who's as
educated as I am but there aren't as
many men just number-wise so if there
are more women who are educated meaning
college graduate school than men but
those women want men who have those
degrees they're not the there's low
inventory of men who have that and so
there's a there's sort of a problem with
that um and so what I really want to
encourage people to do is when they're
dating and this is not about lowering
your standards it's about saying to
women there are lots of kinds of
intelligence so you yes you want to be
with someone who is equally
intelligent but that doesn't mean that
they have the same degrees that you have
who do you want to talk to who do you
have interesting conversations with is
this causing an issue for successful
women that are that are over 30 I was
reading an article I think it was on the
Washington Post where um a lady was
interviewing another lady who had
written a book called I think it's
called like the gender gap or something
and they concluded that much of the
reason why successful women above the
age of 30 were struggling in dating is
because of this issue that men don't
want to be with a woman that is like
better than them and it's somewhat
emasculating to a man and so I I've had
lots of private conversations with very
successful women I know a lot of
successful women that are very
exceptional relationships but I've also
got got a small cohort of women that
tell me that they're struggling in
dating because they're too successful
and men don't like it and are
emasculated is that true I think there's
this narrative in our culture that women
are women who are successful are not
finding men because they're focused too
much on their career and I think that's
absolutely false I think that when you
are out there in the work environment
you are meeting men and that's where
you're and you're meeting other people
you're meeting other women who maybe are
married their husbands have friends
you're out there in the world and people
are seeing you so I think and also you
have meaning and purpose in your life
and you're doing something you enjoy and
I think that that's very attractive I
think that there are you know I think
that people are wanting someone who can
not live their work which is different
from being
successful and because you want a
partner who's also available to you but
I don't think that it's because women
are too focused on their careers that
that's what's happening I think it's
because of this Gap app that the women
who are maybe achieving certain things
in the world are not finding men who are
achieving at the same level and so
they're not there just aren't enough men
for those women the numbers just don't
work out and so then there's this
question of as a woman who is a very
high achieving do you have to be with
somebody who is high achieving in the
same
way and that's a very hard cultural
shift for a lot of women to make and the
other problem is that when high
achieving women want to be with high
achieving men a lot of those High
achieving men are not great partners and
that's the thing that so so they might
be dating a lot of high achieving men
and they maybe they are finding them but
then they find that this person doesn't
have time for me or this person isn't
really nurturing or this person is um
you know married to his job and I don't
like that I think it's hard when you
have two people who are extremely
focused on their professional lives and
neither one of them has time for the
relationship so I'm not saying you know
there are a lot of relationships where
that works really well where both people
are very focused on their careers but
they also understand each other in a way
that helps them and then there are the
relationships where you have two very
high achieving people and they both
expect that the other person is going to
be more involved in the relationship to
help them support their own career and
they can't because they're supporting
the their career so you can't you can't
do both
yeah just with this stat in mind that
71% of people say it's very important
for a man to be able to support a family
financially to be a good husband or
partner if we get to the point a point
which is kind of the the trajectory
we're on where women and men are earning
the same women already have more sort of
college degrees than men by about I
think it's roughly about 10% at the
moment roughly we're going to find
ourselves where yeah
expectations for what a man can offer
are really really high but reality is
really low and then you that it feels
like that the amount of women that are
not finding what they want is going to
continue to increase and the amount of
men that don't feel like they are good
enough for a woman because they're not
smart enough they don't have enough
money they can't contribute in the same
way is also going to increase but then
also with General working Dynamics we're
seeing that people are getting married
later and later they're having less and
less kids so are you at all concerned
about this trajectory yes very um
because I think it leaves a lot of
people who really want to partner and
and could really enjoy having a partner
who maybe is different from what this
cultural norm is they don't go after
that so A woman will say oh I'm not
going to even go on a date with this guy
because he's not successful enough um
you know we're too different and a man
on the other hand might say I'm not
going to even go on a date with her
because she's so focused on her career
or you know or I'm not good enough for
her so they they don't even get a chance
to even see if they might be a good
match and and sometimes it's it's a
great match because you don't
necessarily want two people who are
exactly the same and I see this all the
time with couples who come in for
couples therapy where they thought that
what was so good about their
relationship when they first got
together was we're so the same and then
they find that wait a minute but there's
no one here to be more of the nurturer
or there's no one here to spend more
time with the household or there's no
one here to do more of kind of
logistical things in the house because
we're both doing exactly the same job I
was say isn't that sort of central to
the equality narrative that you should
share the responsibilities right so
equality doesn't mean that you have
exactly the same responsibilities it
means that you feel that there's not a
power Dynamic so equality means one
person doesn't have more power than the
other person but that doesn't mean that
you know I do laundry 2.5 days of the
week or 3.5 days of the week and you do
laundry 3.5 days of the week maybe
someone only does their their
responsibility is the laundry that
doesn't mean that there's a power
Dynamic it means the other person maybe
they're always doing the dishes or
whatever it is it doesn't have to be
split up in this way so I think that
when people think about having an
egalitarian marriage we're talking about
that there's not a power differential
but you still get to choose like a woman
might say and I'm being stereotypical
here it might be the man but often it's
the woman who says you know what I want
to do I want to switch to part-time with
my work so that doesn't mean she has
less power in the marriage because he
makes more now because he's working
full-time it means they've divided up
things differently because that was
their
choice that was that was something that
was chosen it wasn't like you can't work
it was I would like to do less do you
tend to see issues unique to
relationships when a woman is earning
more than a man yeah I do I still think
this is something that um is is very
Primal for us around um you know what it
means I think that women women sometimes
feel resentful that's why they want to
be with someone it's funny because a
woman can be making a lot of money and
she won't even go out with someone who
makes the same amount she has to go out
with someone who makes more which is
interesting because she won't
necessarily say that I think it's hard
to acknowledge the contradictions and I
think for men the same thing that a man
will say you know I want a woman who has
her own life I want somebody who is
doing something in the world that is
important to her but I don't want her to
make more money than me it's hard to say
that out loud this comes out in couple
therapy where people start talking about
wow there is this difference and maybe
it didn't even start out that way maybe
it started out where he was making more
and then things shifted and then she
started making more and it changed
something in their Dynamic and so they
start fighting a lot but they're not
fighting about that they're fighting
about all different kinds of things and
so it comes out in different behaviors
and they come to coup's therapy saying
we're having we're fighting all the time
or we're not having sex or here's what's
happening and it turns out it was really
about this issue of who has power now
but they didn't realize it was about
that or they weren't willing to kind of
look at that do you think it's getting
increasingly harder to know what the
role of a man and a woman are cuz I
think you know I've had so many
conversations on and off this podcast
with people who are have sons or
daughters it's often the ones that have
sons I'm thinking about a lady that I
know and she says she's so confused by
what to tell her son a man is these days
and you know when I think about
suicidality and how how much of a a big
killer it is especially in the UK I know
it's sort of Western Trend but I think
it's the biggest killer of men under the
age of 45 is themselves I'm thinking you
know there's often a narrative that
that's
because masculinity is changing they're
not being masculine enough and then
there's another narrative that says no
it's because they're not being feminine
enough what's typically associated with
sort of feminine traits yeah well it's
true that more men die by Suicide than
women do and some people say well that's
because the method that men choose is we
lethal but I also think think that
that's only part of the story because
when men do come into therapy they they
truly truly feel that conflicted about
exactly what you said that I don't know
how to be a man in today's world it used
to be much more clear now I'm not saying
that was a good thing that it used to be
much more clear because there were all
kinds of power dynamics that that
weren't so healthy for men and women but
I think now what men are saying is um
you know I maybe don't want to be the
person solely responsible for you know
like I would like my partner to also
bring in some income but you know that
creates all kinds of problems or I want
to be able to again open up to and and
talk to my partner in this way but I'm
afraid that it makes her feel unsafe so
so what do we do what what does it mean
and and I'm raised so I could say I'm
raising a boy who is now 18 years old
and even things like you know does he
still pay he always wants to pay on his
a date and then some people don't like
that and he thinks well I'm just being
I'm just being sort of shivil RIS or you
know but but there are all these ways in
which you don't know sort of like what
is expected of you so it's like if he
pays then some people take offense if he
doesn't pay then some people take
offense and he just doesn't know what to
do you know like how much of these
things that I feel are being sort of the
role of a man in a nice way like
protecting taking care of um will be
offensive to some people because they
see it as kind of a power Dynamic so
what is the role of of a man it's really
unclear I mean that's the thing and I
think that that it really needs to be
discussed and that's where I think
there's hope is that when people can
actually say hey I'd really like to pay
on this date and you know if she says
well I don't feel comfortable with that
I think a question is okay that's fine
you we can split it but I want to let's
talk about why and to be able to talk
about you know what are what does this
mean that I pay what does that mean to
you um you know I think a lot of people
would say oh well it means like you know
that that you expect something back from
me you expect you know that that we're
going to have sex or you expect you know
whatever these old ideas are yeah yeah
um and and I think that we need to be
having these conversations that's my
point is that it's not so important that
we that we know what it means it's more
important that we know what it means to
the person that we are interested in
what does it mean to them it's going to
mean something different to everybody so
if we can't talk to this person that
we're interested in about what it means
then we're just going to both people are
going to be mired in confusion yeah I'm
a bit of a old school romantic as they
say my my partner she has a great job
she has her own money but I just
absolutely feel the need to open up
every door for her pay for every bill
for her I would absolutely not have it
any other way maybe that's cuz I'm
insecure or something I don't know but I
just I watch my dad do it for my mom and
it's like hard wide into my DNA that my
role is
to protect take care of do everything I
can to support and if she I yeah God I
I'd really struggle with her paying for
me and she's got her own money she's
she's got her own business her own job
but have you talked about it or it just
worked out that way she never said she
never said can I pay this once or can I
yeah yeah yeah yeah she pays she pays
you know she's she it's like a bit of a
competition she'll like sneak off to the
bath anday and stuff but generally I I
think it's I've always wanted to do that
on dates and I I think you know if you
sat people down and ask them the
question you go on a first date with a
guy and he asks to split the bill or he
ask or you know he doesn't immediately
pay would that be an ick for you would
that turn you off them that would be a
huge ick for me yes so even for you it
would be yes yes if you went on a first
date with a guy and he didn't pay yes
would you absolutely why it's hard to
articulate because and this is what
people you know will say all women will
say of all ages um I think for my age we
grew up with that was the expectation I
think for younger Generations maybe it's
not the expectation but I think a lot of
people still like it or want it um
there's something there's something
about it that that says I really uh I
really valued our time together I care
I'm interested it's a way of signaling
interest but I think even if the person
isn't interested and you're going to see
each other again it's just a nice
gesture mhm but I don't have any any
rational way of
explaining why and if and if I were to
get rational about it I would talk
myself out of it yes I think that's a
very honest answer and then the counter
sort of rebuttal to that means okay so
if men are expected to pay then we're
going to need more money
yes yes and it gets very expensive to
date yeah it does I mean you know people
will say oh you can go on a hike it
doesn't doesn't cost anything you can do
a picnic you can um you know watch a
movie there are all kinds of things you
can do but the reality is you it's kind
of like I remember that that old Chris
Rock joke in the first three months of a
relationship you're not you you're the
ambassador of you so you know you want
to impress somebody you're you're trying
to show interest in somebody um but I do
think there's that that really Primal
need for safety that is gender based
that we don't like to talk about or
acknowledge but that I think women
really I think if if somebody doesn't
pay on a first date if a guy doesn't pay
on a first date I think a lot of women
don't feel safe that's what it comes
down to it's a it's a tricky world and
it's getting increasingly trickier it
feels you know it it feels like an
insult almost that the person doesn't
pay not many people some people would
but no one would really publicly say
that though because it's like not
socially acceptable to say you expect
but in private conversation of course
everyone knows that if they went on a
date with with a man so in a
heterosexual relationship and the man
either asked to split the bill or to or
suggested that you might
pay this person's not going to get a
second date of course not no no unless
it was the woman who said um oh no let
me split that with you but if it was his
decision and he said oh let's let's
split this s put it in the middle no no
I I I in therapies the young woman came
to me and she said she went out with
this guy and they went to a cafe and
they got uh coffees and he uh asked her
to split it coffee and she said and she
was having so much fun on the date until
the bill came and she was shocked and
she thought okay well she made it it was
very personal to her first she thought I
must he must really really have had a
horrible time with me to have wanted to
not pay for my $5
coffee and then he asked her out again
and she said to me I don't understand
this at all so he was interested in me
and he didn't pay for my coffee and she
did not go out with him again so these
are the kinds of signals that it it very
much is emblematic of something who pays
on that first date do you agree with
that decision that she made
100% And I mean I didn't say that as her
therapist it's really about
understanding it for her but but I I do
agree with that decision and I and I
think it's because there's something
there's something like a half note off
about a person who doesn't even see that
it's a $5 coffee and you're interested
in this person and she wasn't making any
moves to pay she was just sitting there
for a very long time and the the she
said the way she told the story was that
the person came around and couple times
and said are you you ready and the guy
said oh no we're not ready yet and then
at a certain point he said to her oh do
you want to put your credit card down
right to her and so she just said I
could never go out with somebody like
that even though they had a really good
time before that so if we Zoom back out
then MH so is are you saying that that
is a Telltale sign of a broader
character issue that this individual has
because earlier you said that we really
should be focusing on like character
traits is that a red flag of some kind
of other character trait I think that
when things are hard in the beginning
that's not a good sign so I think that
when there's like a big disconnect in
the beginning that you should pay
attention to that so a big disconnect is
not he you know the example I gave
earlier of you know he said yes to the
top water that's different from he
didn't pay for my coffee that's that's
different the top water might be oh I
don't know is is is he cheap I don't
know let's see let me get to know him
better this is this is about
generosity they're different things and
so you know I I feel like relationships
I always say to people when they when
they Overlook things in the beginning I
think there are two camps on this
there's the people who think everything
is a red flag that's not like the tap
water not a red flag but there are
people who um don't pay enough attention
to the red flags in the beginning so
they say yes this person they kind of
disappeared for a couple days and I
didn't like that and you know but but or
they they were they're late all the time
or you know whatever it is that doesn't
necessarily mean it's a deal breaker but
it's kind of a a flag that you want to
discuss early on so what what happens is
if you don't discuss it is a person will
say you know after they're now they're
in a relationship and they've been
dating for several months and and and
they're moving along and the person says
I can't stand it when you're late every
time and he says why is this a pro I've
always been late why is this a problem
now right so if you bring it up early
before the cement so you know I always
say relationships are like cement that
there's room for things to move in the
beginning before things kind of really
get hard and difficult to change but
once the cetri it's much harder to
change those habits or those
interactions or the dance that you're
doing with the other person so if you
don't like something in the beginning
you might want to bring it up to see how
much wiggle room is there here can this
person be more aware of being on time
because I don't like sitting there for
half an hour every time we make plans
we're getting married a lot less and
we're getting married um later later yes
so there was a stat that I I found that
said for the first time ever people over
the age of 30 have been haven't been
married in higher numbers than ever
before so yeah marriage is getting later
and later in people's lives but I also
found this really interesting graph
which I printed out which shows that
there seems to be an optimal time to get
married yes I was just going to mention
that there's a window so I'll put it up
on the screen for anyone that's looking
and I'll put it in the description below
but it essentially shows that if you get
married after 30 MH you're more likely
to get divorced than if you got married
between 25 and 30 right so there's a
sweet spot so if you get married too
young you're more likely to get divorced
meaning if you get married sort of under
20 I think it's 22 or 23 um but if you
get married over I think it's
28 you have more likelihood of getting
divorced so the study which I have in
front of me by The Institute for family
studies says there is an Optimum age to
get married if you want to statistically
avoid a chance of divorce and it seems
to be around ages 25 to 30ish someone
who marries at 25 is over 50% less
likely to get divorced than someone who
Weds at age 20 before the age of 32 or
so each additional year of agent
marriage reduces the odds of Divorce by
11% however after 32 years old um every
year increases your chance of Divorce by
5% and I couldn't figure out why oh I
think there are several reasons for this
so first of all I think it's sort of
obvious about marrying to Young that you
you don't necessarily have the skills
you aren't really um established in your
own life and uh you don't necessarily
have the maturity to do what you need to
do to be in that kind of relationship
for the long term you also don't really
know who you are yet and so you might
think that you want a certain kind of
life and you find out your partner wants
something very different but once you
get into your mid 20s and even sort of
later 20s it's an optimal time because
you have a better sense of who you are
um you know more of what you want and
you can grow together as a couple and I
think that's really important you're
going to have more shared experiences
you're going to know more of each
other's families your parents are
probably still alive on each side um
you're going to get to know each other's
siblings if you have siblings you're
going to be more integrated into each
other's lives as you get older first of
all you're more sort of set in your ways
you're we talked about rigidity earlier
you're more rigid um you have different
expectations I think when you're younger
you're more flexible in terms of uh just
being more openminded we get less
open-minded generally as we get older um
around relationship around the things
that we expect and we also have a
history as we get older so we have more
negative
experiences of maybe heartbreak being
broken up with breaking up with people
um relationships that didn't work out
that then inform the way we behave in
our relationships and I like to say it's
almost like we're we're punishing our
current partner for a crime they didn't
commit so if you were in a relationship
before where maybe you were cheated on
or someone didn't treat you well then
you are less trusting of the partner
that you're with or you're more on guard
or more closed off because you're
worried you're not going to get treated
well so it's almost like the the more
dating experiences that you have some
people would think counterintuitively
they would think um you know if I have
more dating experience then I'm going to
be a better partner later on but often
because those were not great dating
experiences sure you might have learn
something in them but if you have too
many of them it's good to maybe have a
relationship or two before you get
married but to have five um it's harder
right because you have all this baggage
that you're bringing in and the other
person who's also your age has all this
baggage that they're bringing in and
there might also be something it's kind
of like if a fight breaks out in every
bar you're going to maybe it's you that
maybe you are doing something in
relationship and that is why it's not
that you haven't been able to meet
someone it's that you've been pairing up
with people in a way that is not really
healthy so and you haven't spent the the
time to really figure it out so you're
just going to keep repeating and
repeating those not great relationships
even if you marry the person it might
not last because something has not been
working in those last five relationships
and you haven't figured that out yet in
your Ted Talk you talk about part of
getting to know yourself is getting to
unknow yourself why do we have to get to
unknow
ourselves well I think that so many
people think I'm going to come into
therapy and I'm going to learn so much
about myself and you do but part of
learning about yourself is learning what
the faulty narratives are that you've
been carrying around whether it's I'm
unlovable or I can't trust anyone or I'm
no good at this or this thing is wrong
with me these again are stories that you
picked up about yourself from a long
time ago and it might not even have been
your parents it might have been at
school maybe you were bullied in school
or maybe you were in an envir
environment that maybe you had ADHD and
you were told you weren't smart because
people didn't realize that you learned
differently and you actually are quite
intelligent so you have these stories so
it's to unknow people will come in and
say well I'm not that I'm not really
smart well you have to unknow that
because that might not be true let's
find out so it's really you know it's
interesting because I was a writer long
before I was a therapist and I still em
a writer but I Ed so much of of writing
and narrative in the therapy to kind of
help people edit their stories let's
look at you know is the protagonist
going in circles or is the protagonist
moving forward who are the supporting
characters and and do the major
characters need to be more minor
characters in your life and do some of
the minor characters need to be more
major characters and and what is going
to be the next chapter how do we look at
where this story is going so a lot of
this is unknowing stuff about the
character which is you you know if you
come up with a character as a writer and
you say well this person's not very
smart they're kind of weird and they're
unlovable well you're going to write the
story a certain way thinking the
character has those traits but if you
say actually this person's quite smart
and they're quite lovable and they're
quite attractive well you're going to
write a different next chapter for
them I've always on that point about
sort of narratives we've written I've
always considered myself to be very
productive maybe the more honest answer
is a bit of a workaholic to some degree
I think that my work is
fundamentally attached and associated
with my own
self-esteem so I think when I'm working
really really hard and I feel really
productive I think at some deep level I
think I'm worth more or I'm like I fit
in and kind of it goes back to when I
was younger and I felt like I didn't fit
in it feels like I'm more valuable now
the problem you have as an adult when
you're trying to achieve a different set
of goals like have a a healthy
relationship is this kind of gets in
your way and I I think I found that in
myself that I still have this urge to be
really successful and work really hard
because at some level it's making it's
doing something for my image of myself
but as I get older I kind of need to
figure out a way to drop that down a
little bit or else I'm going to miss out
on something that's going to make me
happy which is relationships and a lot
of people that I speak to a lot of
people that listen to this podcast are
in a similar situation where they just
can't get off the train in terms of
their work yeah yeah so we were talking
about defense mechanisms and so one of
the defense mechanisms is where you take
something that comes from an unhealthy
place and you put it into something that
looks on the surface healthier so I
don't feel
worthy or as worthy as I would like to
so I'm going to succeed in this
incredible way so on the surface it
looks great it looks like you're doing
something really healthy but actually
you're not really working on that
self-worth piece another example might
be um somebody who has a lot of anger
and they take up um boxing right um or
they become a surgeon because they cut
into people you see this a lot um where
somebody takes their anger so they put
it into something that looks healthy but
they're not really dealing with the
underlying issue which is the anger you
see that a lot that people that have
anger issues sometimes take up roles
like surgeons sure yeah really yeah
anything where you where you can do
again boxing it could be anything where
you where you're putting it into a
socially acceptable container as opposed
to dealing with the issue so there's
nothing wrong with being a great surgeon
there's nothing wrong with being
somebody who succeeds in work that they
love but then what happens is when
you're not doing the thing that gets the
societal approval then where does you
know what do you do with in one case
your anger and the other case your
selfworth and so I'm glad that you're
looking at at the self-worth piece
because that's going to be important
because you're not always going to get
it from your work how do you improve
your selfworth what would you do with a
patient like me I would you know I I
think it's we we do this on the podcast
where we do something very practical
where we have people make a list of the
things that other people would say so
there's two columns there's one what
would other people say are your best
qualities that have nothing to do with
your work okay what do they appreciate
most about you and then what do you
appreciate most about yourself that has
nothing to do with work that you think
other people don't see and when you when
you start to look at those they're very
quiet at first you know people don't
have a long list they're of like I don't
really know and and I'm looking for
really tiny things like this person
really appreciated that when they were
sick I called them this person really
appreciates that I'm funny that I make
them laugh I appreciate that about
myself you might say right you might say
like I really appreciate about myself or
I appreciate that I can be calm under
really stressful
circumstances um I appreciate that I um
I notice my partner and I do nice things
for my partner I appreci not my partner
appreciates that that'll be on one
column but the other column is I
appreciate that about myself so looking
at how can I pay more attention to some
of these areas that I I don't pay enough
attention to because I can only see the
real shiny thing out there which is how
many people you know how many millions
of people follow me or how many people
um you know download the podcast those
kinds of things and is there a reason
why Okay the reason why you separate
work from that is because you're trying
to find your self-esteem in other places
outside of the work right so it's both
and it's not to say don't get don't
don't feel worthy because of what you do
with your work that's a big part of what
we do with our lives think of the number
of hours that we spend in work we're
spending most of our days doing work so
of course we want to get self-worth from
that but we also want to know that we
have other areas in which we are worthy
and that we don't pay enough attention
we don't give ourselves enough credit
it's kind of like in a relationship
there's a statistic about the bank of
Goodwill so in a healthy relationship
there are we think of deposits of how
many positive interactions do you have
with your partner to how many negative
interactions do you have and so you want
to have 20 positive interactions for
every one negative
interaction in a
relationship and when things are not
good you want to have you you know you
you hope you can do five positive ones
to one negative one but that's that's a
lot so it's it's really noticing these
are these are small little deposits that
you make like I held I I took my
partner's hand when we were walking down
the street you know those are like small
positive interactions you're not
counting them it's just a way of being
but what happens is when your self-worth
is all in one bucket you don't notice
you're not making enough deposits to
yourself of into the self-worth bank so
it's it really is about noticing what
are the deposits that I'm making so I'm
making a lot of deposits in the in the
work bucket but I'm not making a lot of
deposits in noticing that was really I
really liked that I was really funny in
at that dinner party that was really fun
um I was really kind to that stranger on
the street that was really nice of me do
you think that some people are scared to
go to therapy because they think if they
are to heal from something whatever that
means it will rob them of something that
they value I if I go to therapy and I
work through my childhood trauma then
maybe I won't be as ambitious or
successful or driven Etc I think the
fear is I will have to change I will
have to change and I will have to do
something different and I might not like
that and that's why people are like if I
go to therapy and I take off my mask and
this person sees the truth of who I am
and I see the truth of who I am I might
need to do something difficult and I
might need to get rid of one of my
defense mechanisms like I'm avoidant
maybe right or I'm or I might not be
able to um you know to do things that
maybe I get away with that are not very
healthy
because they're easier in your book you
you say something your new book maybe
you should talk to someone you say
something that really surprised me which
is that sometimes when someone changes
those around them will sabotage them and
basically get in the way of that change
because it changes the dynamic that that
relationship has with a person and I
mean we see this generally when someone
becomes successful for example their
friends from their Hometown might be a
little bit resistant because they want
to keep the Dynamics the way that they
are but the examples that you talk about
in the book about like you know someone
gets over their alcohol addiction and
then a friend might sabotage them by I
know giving them alcohol or taking them
to a bar yeah were really really
striking yeah that happened with
Charlotte in the book when she realized
that her drinking was a problem she was
the young woman who's in her 20s and was
dating and she realized that she drinks
too much and it's really affecting her
life and her functioning and so she
decided that she was going to do
something about that and then when her
she was having a birthday party and her
friend said oh let's do it at this bar
and she said no I'd rather do it at this
other place because I don't want to be
in that environment and her friends are
like you're no fun anymore and you don't
come out with us anymore but the but the
real issue is that she was holding up a
mirror without realizing it to her
friends because they were saying oh
maybe we aren't drinking in a healthy
way and they didn't want to look at that
so if they could get her to go back to
the old way we see this in couples a lot
when one person decides they're going to
get healthy in a certain way like I'm
going to start exercising and the person
starts exercising and the other person
doesn't exercise at all and they're
really unhealthy and that person says
why do you get up early and go to the
gym you're no fun anymore you know
you're obsessed with exercise when
they're not they're just going to the
gym in a normal way and really they're
feeling threatened they're like you know
this is changing the dynamic between us
cuz we used to be both unfit and now my
partner is looking really healthy and
hot and now it's really clear that I'm
not really healthy and I don't look as
good as I could look and maybe I'm going
to have to do this and they don't really
want to they're resistant to doing that
and the partner's not asking them to do
to go to the gym they're saying I'm
going to the gym you do what you want
but there's this implicit pressure of I
have to look at myself that's why people
again don't come to therapy is because
I'm going to have to look at myself and
maybe make some changes that are
healthier and I'm not sure I'm ready to
do that yet and I write in the book
about the stages of change because I
think it's so important that people
understand that New Year's resolutions
for example don't often work because
people think I just decide this thing I
have this goal I'm going to do it and I
either succeed or I fail and that's just
not true there are these stages that
people go through and it starts with
precontemplation where you don't even
know you're thinking of making a change
and that's usually like if your partner
starts exercising you didn't realize
that maybe in the back of your mind that
that was something you had been thinking
about but weren't ready to deal with
contemplation is you know you're
thinking about making a change but
you're not ready to do it yet that's
usually when people come to therapy
they're thinking about it but they don't
really they're not really ready
preparation is when you you start to get
ready you're preparing you're you're
maybe getting a gym membership or you're
um taking an anger management class or
whatever you're doing and then action is
when you put the change and it might
also be like you're preparing to break
up with someone who's not good for you
so you're getting thinking about how am
I going to do this what are the
logistics of this and then when you
action is you actually do the thing you
break up you go to the gym you change
jobs you apply for a job that you always
wanted you go back to grad school you do
the thing you wanted to do but then the
next stage is the most important stage
which is maintenance and maintenance is
it's not like you're on this upward
trajectory and and if you if you you go
off the trajectory then you failed it's
not like that maintenance is how does
this become more habitual in my life so
let's use the breakup example um you
broke up with this person you're having
a really bad day you're feeling really
lonely you called them at midnight or
you texted them at midnight because oh I
don't know you know like and so now you
say oh I better get back in a relation I
guess I'm back in a relationship with
them no no no no no you you slipped off
it's okay then you say you know what I
was feeling really lonely I didn't know
how to cope with it I'm going to go to
therapy I'm going to have an extra
session I'm going to call my friend I'm
going to watch a TV show that that that
I like I'm going to read a book that I
like it will feel different in the
morning next time that's what I'm going
to do and so you you have to get used to
you know we talked about the familiar
earlier about going toward familiar
Partners making a change is really hard
because we're changing something that
was familiar to us it's like when I was
in therapy um my therapist said you know
you remind me of this cartoon and it's
of a prisoner shaking the bars
desperately trying to get out but on the
right and the left it's open no no bars
so that's us where we think you know I
would like to make a change but I'm
really afraid of going outs I'm more
comfortable being in jail in this
miserable situation than knowing that I
have freedom but I have to change I'm
going to have to take responsibility for
my life if I walk around those bars and
so I think with change it's really
about how do I give myself
self-compassion when I have trouble
making the change and help myself get
back on track and what kind of support
do I need people think if I beat myself
up if I self flatulate if I tell myself
I'm awful and I'm a failure I'm going to
get back on track because that's going
to help me no it's not going to help you
in the short term it might help you a
little bit but what's really going to
help you is to have self-compassion
because that actually gives you more
accountability you're more able to say
to yourself okay let me think about what
I can do differently it's kind of like
if your kid comes home from school and
says I did really badly I failed this
test are you going to scream at them is
that going to help them do better on the
next test or are you going to say let's
sit down and figure this out what do you
think happened here and your kid might
say I didn't really understand it and I
didn't get help or your kid might really
be honest and say I didn't study enough
so we can say okay well what can you do
next time let's kind of think about can
you make a schedule can you do you need
to study with a study partner what do
you need to do that's what helps people
make long-term change is that the wise
compassion that you spoke about versus
the sort of idiot compassion which talk
about as well idiot compassion is what
we tend to do with our friends so your
friend says listen to what my partner my
cooworker my you know my sibling my
parents did or said and we say yeah
they're wrong you're right how dare they
because we're just validating their
perspective and like we were talking
about in my TED Talk there are many
different versions of a story all of
which are true so you you're only
getting one Nar narrow perspective when
you're hearing one one person's
perspective that's why couples therapy
is so great because I can hear the same
incident told by two different people
who were there both of whom are telling
the absolute truth of their experience
but they're leaving out the other
person's experience and that's where
things get dangerous so in idiot
compassion we don't consider what the
other person's perspective might be when
our friend is telling us something we
just back up our friends but they're not
learning anything from that experience
it's and and when you hear them over and
over you kind of get a sense that maybe
they're doing something like an example
would be um your friend keeps getting
broken up with and we can say yes these
men are jerks they're terrible you
deserve better or we can say you know I
think that sometimes you're a little bit
too possessive early on in the
relationship and I think they start to
feel overwhelmed and then they break up
with you but if you could just hold your
anxiety a little bit more at the
beginning of the relationship ship and
not be so overwhelming to them that you
might develop something different the
next time that would be wise compassion
that's what they're going to hear in
therapy so in therapy we hold up a
mirror to them and help them to see
something about their role in the
situation that maybe they haven't been
willing or able to see and so we think
we're being a good friend by offering
idiot compassion but we're not actually
helping our friends and that's where
therapy I think can be really helpful
when you s with a man and a woman in a
therapy session do you typically mind
that the woman expresses more emotion
tears than the man sometimes yes often I
also think that emotions can be used as
manipulation so an example is uh a
pattern in a relationship might be that
he brings up something that he wants to
talk about she cries because of what he
said and he said it nicely but it's
something they need to deal with and she
cries and then he gets gets terrified by
her crying he thinks oh my gosh I've
hurt her and so then he shuts down and
so really her crying is a manipulation
it's a I don't want to hear anything
that I'm quote doing wrong and so I'm
going to shut that down by crying and
being the victim and being hurt being a
victim is actually a power position
because you are making it impossible for
anyone to deal with whatever is going on
between the two of you because now
you're the victim and now they look a
horrible person if they're making you
cry so I will call that out in therapy
and I will say you know what he's going
to talk and we're going to do something
different where he's going to be able to
say what he wants to say she might cry
but if she cries I want you to please go
on she's going to be fine I'm going to
be here with her and you don't have to
manage her feelings you're going to tell
her about your feelings I will be here
to help manage her
feelings
interesting and you see that if you're
not in therapy you'll see that pattern
where it's just you know someone will
play the victim in the relationship and
it could go either way it could be
anyone in the relationship but when
someone plays the victim the other
person actually becomes the victim they
become so helpless in the relationship
the true victim is the person who has to
interact with the person who plays the
victim dreams something I was quite
surprised to find in your book but
pleasantly surprised yes do our dreams
have meaning or are they just random I
think both but I I think the dreams are
really helpful and in the book I do give
examples of Dreams where dreams are
often uh kind of a story that we tell
ourselves that we aren't giving
ourselves permission to think about when
we're awake so an example might be
somebody who has been who is worried
that they have been doing something
financially that is not legal um they
have a dream that they were speeding on
the highway and they got caught well
what is that dream really about it's
this I don't really want to think about
this thing that I'm doing that's not
quite above board and I know I shouldn't
be doing it but I'm not going to think
about that um you know the dream that
that I have in the book where so I come
into therapy because of a breakup and um
and I have a dream that I ran into my
ex and uh and it's this very elaborate
dream but the the point is that in my
first therapy session I had said to my
therapist when I was talking about the
breakup I said well half my life is over
and he really glommed on to that
statement that that was really why I was
in therapy what was this about for me it
wasn't so much about the breakup the
breakup got me into therapy but this
whole question of what am I doing with
my life and how am I living my life and
this question of mortality was really
what was on my mind and so in the dream
I think I see that he has a new
girlfriend and I see that she's older
than me and I feel very self-satisfied
by that in this Petty Way and then I
look at myself in the mirror in the
dream and I'm like this
80-year-old wrinkled person and I realiz
oh this is really about this fear that I
have about getting older and that half
my life is over and so dreams really do
inform our biggest fears and our biggest
preoccupations that feel
too scary to think about in our Waking
Life and if we pay attention to our
dreams and what I mean by that is when
you wake up and you remember your dream
if you write it down immediately but you
write it in the present not we were here
and this happened but I'm here and I see
so and so and so and so says to me if
you write it in the present it will
bring back more of the dream for you and
it will help you understand what
connection it has to something that you
really do need to be dealing with in
your life that you're probably not
dealing with dreams can be a precursor
to self-confession yes that's what I say
self-confession they can tell you things
about yourself before you're willing to
admit the them about yourself into
yourself yes and and and it's so
liberating I think that there's
something about the safety of a dream
sometimes your dreams are really scary
but you wake up and you say okay now I
can deal with it now that I've
acknowledged it to myself I can deal
with it in the dream I just had to go
with the flow of the dream but now I can
actually make choices about what I want
to do in my Waking Life at the beginning
of each therapy session um you'll often
ask your patients to describe their Liv
24 hours why is that useful to know what
someone's been doing for the last 24
hours I think most of us don't realize
how we spend our time we have no idea if
you said to somebody you spend three
hours a day scrolling on Instagram they
would say no I
don't we don't realize and I think that
at the end of the day most of us want to
live our lives with intention and what I
mean by that is I think that knowing
that life has 100% more mortality rate
that all of us has a limited time here
we're living on borrow time that's not
to freak people out it's to make people
say how are you actually spending this
borrowed time that you have here because
one day you might look back and wonder
why and I always say that regret can
lead us in one of two directions it can
be a way of self- flatulating and living
in the past or it can be an engine for
change and I really think regret is the
most power ful engine for change I
regret that I lived my life this way so
if we don't realize how we are living
Our Lives we don't have the engine for
change in that chapter 24 you say the
opposite of depression isn't happiness
but Vitality yeah that's Andrew Solomon
that I'm quoting there um and I thought
that that really struck me when he said
that in his own book and his own Ted
talk because I think that people think
about well I'm either happy or I'm
sad and and I think what we're there's
no you can't be happy all the time
there's no such thing you would never
know any other emotion if that's all you
were feeling so I think that that
Vitality is what people are looking for
in life what is Vitality it's a sense of
aliveness okay and this is why people
have affairs by the way often when you
ask people why did you cheat when you
love your partner I didn't feel Vitality
in my life I felt the sense of aliveness
and awakeness when I was with this other
person and it was had not much to do
with the other person and it really
didn't have much to do with your partner
it had to do with you didn't feel
Vitality in your own life and instead of
looking at yourself and saying what can
I do to create Vitality in my life I
blamed it on my marriage I blamed it on
my partner I said I was going to find it
with this other person and what they
find is yeah that works for a little
while but not very long does menopause
play a role in this in terms of I heard
a a stat from um someone that was on the
podcast previously where they said
postmenopausal women but also women
going through menopause will often
divorce their partner because they um
have a lot of sort of
psychological doubts about themselves
and they maybe they expectations I think
someone said to me that their
expectations go up so they end up
divorcing their partner because they're
clear on what they want now but I was
just wondering what role menopause will
play in someone's marriage and their
expectations their view of themselves
chance of maybe getting a divorce and if
you see anything in therapy associated
with this I think what menopause does is
it goes back to this idea of I don't
have forever here and if they weren't
happy with the marriage that they were
in then I think people really wake up
and they really say what do I want in my
life it's a it's a very there's a lot of
psychological changes that come with
it's not just the hormonal changes but
it's what does that represent that I am
done with that chap of my life and I'm
now I'm I'm you know halfway through
again half my life is over and what do I
want to do to more intentionally because
often women have been serving others so
that's what they've been doing they've
been taking care of other people's needs
whether it's their Partners or their
children or their parents um you know
they tend to be the caretakers and now
they're saying wait a minute I only have
this much time left and I really want to
find that Vitality in my life you went
to therapy because of heartbreak yes
I've been through heartbreak who has not
it's one of the it's one of the worst
feelings in the world and it's it's
really hard to give someone advice when
they're going through heartbreak I had a
friend reach out to me recently and said
listen I'm going through a heartbreak
and I just don't know what who else to
turn to it's this big Dark Cloud that
hangs over everything I do think and say
that just won't go away what have you
come to learn about heartbreak from your
own experience but also from your your
patience how do we navigate through that
dark cloud I think what people don't
understand about heartbreak is the grief
and and so this is why I talk about it
so much and maybe you should talk to
someone because it's not just that you
lost the present with that person it's
that you lost the future that you had
created in your mind so you're losing
the dailiness there's something really
profound about the person you tell all
the minutia of your day the person you
you know you know so much about each
other and you know each other's habits
and works this again being understood
being truly known that's such a
delicious feeling being truly known and
so this person knows like what you what
kind of pizza you like or or you know
this quirky habit you have or what TV
shows you watch or that that thing that
you do with your eyes when you're
excited they know all those little
seemingly trivial details that are so
important about being known and they
know your history and they know about
your family and they know who your
friends are and they you've had shared
experience es with this person so you
have all that history together even by
the way if it was only 6 months you have
a lot together or a year and so in that
time you started to
imagine oh and then this is going to
happen next year and then in five years
this will happen or we're going to grow
old together whatever you imagine will
happen and you've become attached to
their friends and they attach to your
friends and then you lose the dailiness
of being known you lose the bigger
Circle that you had and you lose the
companion ship you lose the physical
connection you lose all of that but you
also lose this idea of what was to come
and so every day you're living in this
future that is radically different from
that day as it would have been if you
were in that relationship so it's very
hard people think well how it's been
this long how come you're not over this
person it's kind of like the same thing
when um you know someone has a breakup
instead of a divorce people think it's
not that big of a deal why why is it
less of a big deal it's still loss and
grief or um you know it's like when if
if someone loses a child everyone
surrounds them there all these rituals
for how do we help people through that
kind of loss someone has a miscarriage
people are like well you could still get
pregnant again at least you got pregnant
you know or the the things there's a
chapter in the book called what not to
say to a dying person because one of the
patients that I work with in the book is
um is somebody who's a young person or
30s who is is newly married and then
gets a cancer diagnosis and people say
the most well-meaning but ridiculous
things to her and so I think the same
thing happens in heartbreak where people
try to minimize it they try to cheer you
up they they won't sit with you in your
loss and that's what you really need is
someone to sit with you in your loss and
to acknowledge how profound the loss is
and people don't do that they don't they
either don't see how profound it is or
they do but they they feel like well we
don't want the person to wallow in it or
if I bring it up you know they're going
to be worse no what they need to be seen
and actually that's going to make them
better and it's going to make them heal
faster what impact did it have on you
the way people reacted or the Heartbreak
the Heartbreak I think for me it was a
big wakeup call again around this idea
of half my life is over and what do I
want in my life and why was I willing to
overlook certain things in my
relationship that were clearly there
but that I didn't want to see and how
did you go about recovering is that the
right word moving
forward how did you go about moving
forward that's that's the whole
Narrative of the book um I went to
therapy and it's really about what I
learned about myself in therapy that
that helped me heal and helped me move
forward I was thinking about the uh the
advice that I could give to my friend
and and how I could have been a better
support act cuz my natural disposition
is to try and fix and from what you've
said that's not necessarily the best
approach to take it you know because my
my natural um inclination is to go tell
them the future will be better share my
experience of my heartbreak and those
are all good because as a therapist I
want to hold hope when somebody's really
really dealing with a difficult
situation whether it's a breakup or
something else I want to hold hope that
they can't access they can't access any
hope at that point so I'm going to hold
the hope for them but I'm not going to
try to cheer them up I'm just going to
be the container for that hope so that
they know that someone else is holding
that hope so you did two things really
well one was that you shared your
experience so that this person knows
this happens this person isn't alone in
this that because I think when you go
through a heartbreak intellectually you
know other people have gone through it
but you feel like yours is so much worse
than anybody else's and so to know that
that you went through it too and here's
what helped you and it also took time
and it sucked and all of those things
and then I know that it will get better
even if you can't see it right now to
let them know that peace I know it will
get better for you even if you can't see
it right now and the third but so those
are the two things that that went well
the third thing though is to be able to
sit in the grief with them to say tell
me about how things are different for
you tell me what you miss tell me and
people think oh that's just going to
stir up all the stuff they're just going
to ruminate this isn't helpful you need
to give them a place where they can feel
understood and you can say one strategy
that might be helpful is you can give
yourself 30 minutes a day to go through
all the things you miss everything that
sucks how horrible it is you get that 30
minutes so that the rest of the day
they're not ruminating because every
time they catch themselves thinking
about it they say wait a minute at 6:00
I get to do this non-stop for 30 minutes
and so if you can hold it you're you
rewire your nervous system
neurologically this actually happens
where that pathway gets interrupted if
we can put a stop sign up between the
feeling and the behavior which is the
rumination I feel sad oh now I'm going
to ruminate on this we put a stop sign
up and say I get to go there later then
later when we start having more of these
feelings we have a stop sign we're used
to now now we're wired that way so we
put more time between the thought and
the rumination as you know whoop are a
sponsor of this podcast and I'm an
investor in the company and last month I
had the chance to sit down with Kristen
Holmes she's the VP of performance at
and I learned so much from our
conversation about circadian rhythms and
things like sleep studies show that for
every 45 minutes of sleep debt that you
acrew that your decision- making ability
will drop by up to 10% and when you're
chronically underslept you'll only be a
fra fraction of the person the fraction
of the boss partner friend manager that
you can be that's why I'm obsessed with
which not just tracks but coaches
you on how to get better at sleep so you
can bring your best to everything that
you choose to do if you're not convinced
you can try whoop for 30 days completely
risk-free with zero commitment just by
going to join. whoop.com
CEO that's join. woop.com
CEO and let me know how you on if you
don't like it there's no commitment join
whoop.com
CEO on on the point of
heartbreak at the deepest human level is
it about you know you talked about the
bigger picture the loss of the future
Etc in the past is the fundamental
reason we have heartbreak as a device
built inside of us because we are
creatures that need connection and it's
a mechanism to make us stay connected
and avoid becoming disconnected you
literally could not survive in early
societies without being part of the
group you had to belong if you did not
belong you couldn't survive you wouldn't
get food you wouldn't get shelter you
wouldn't survive so belonging is just
hardwired in us it's it's something that
keeps us alive and we actually do need
it to stay alive um even now and what I
mean by that is you take for example
when they did these stud and they looked
at babies who were in orphanages and
they thought all they need is they need
they need food they you know they need
to get they need to be fed they need to
be nourished they need to have their
diaper changed they need those things
these babies didn't develop and many of
them died it's called failure to thrive
because they weren't held they weren't
held they needed love they literally
died from lack of Love they just they
couldn't they couldn't survive no matter
how much you could they just stopped
eating they failed failure to thrive
they wouldn't meet their developmental
Milestones this happens this happens in
really traumatic childhoods even um so
you actually cannot live without love
you need some kind of love it doesn't
have to be romantic love but you need
love so we need that so our main goal in
life is to love and be Lov we may think
it's about success and it's about
appearance and all the things that we
see on social media we may think that's
what life is about and everything that
our culture sells us but ultimately what
we need is we need love we need to love
and we need to be loved and so when that
gets cut off we forget that we have
other people who love us um we forget
everything else everything just feels
extremely black or white it's like I I
was loved and then I wasn't loved and
that's how it's going to feel for a
little
while it's scary it's scary because so
much of your work is centered on
connection I like the fundamental level
and we're living in a world that feels
like it's getting more and more
disconnected than ever before um if you
go back a couple of decades young people
used to see their friends once a week or
twice a week about about 80% of PE
people did now it's getting down to
about 30 40% which is really really
crazy I did a talk on stage the other
day and and there was 5 600 people in
the audience and the kid sat to my far
bottom left here raised his hand and his
question in front of 600 people was
essentially I'm lonely and how do I make
friends he sat in a room with 700 people
that are his exact age
and he's asking me in front of all of
them which I I respect he's asking me
the question how do I make friends a lot
of people ask that a lot of men come up
to me and Whisper it to me it talks
they'll say it to me so they'll they'll
make because we film a lot they'll come
up really close to me and basically
Express that they'll say it in my DMs
how do I make friends yeah I get that
all the time to the podcast to the
column that is one of the most frequent
questions is I'm lonely how do I make
connections how do I make friends from
younger people people especially but
older people too and I think that it's
really frightening because when I watch
my son who's
18 um people think look going back to
your graph that they are quote seeing
their friends because they're sending
pictures of themselves back and forth on
Snapchat to their friends and they think
that that's socializing but it's so
different we learned this during Co that
there's such a difference between being
in a room with someone and um you know
being mediated by a screen but they're
not even having conversations like you
would if you were with your friend
things happen you have shared
experiences you're doing things together
conversation just more naturally flows
um they're literally you know they're
sending texts to each other that are
just emojis or you know a picture of
this they're not really learning so it's
not just how do I meet friends but it's
how do I be in friendship with someone
and it's hard because a lot of people
aren't interested in doing that like if
you said at that that age you know let's
hang out sometimes people will but
really more people are just on their
phones 247 and they think they're super
social but they're not it's like the
difference between vulnerability online
and true vulnerability so a lot of
people in fact I was just on Instagram
and I saw somebody saying I'm going to
be so vulnerable I see this all the time
I'm going to be so vulnerable with all
of you and share this thing and all
their followers say you know that was so
brave and and lots of Hard emojis and
all of that that's not vulnerability to
put that out on a public platform true
vulnerability is what this kid was
asking you which is when you are face
Toof face with someone if you're with
your partner or a close friend or a
family member and you want to share
something you need in the relationship
or something that you feel shame about
or something that is scary for you to
take the mask off and and and share with
somebody that's true vulnerability
because the stakes are high what is this
person going to think of me again going
back to I need to be loved we all need
to be loved what is this person going to
think of me how will they love me if
they know the truth of who I am this
thing that I'm about to share very
different from sharing it on Instagram
or Tik Tok or whatever so I think that
it's really important that we as adults
look at how much FaceTime do we have
FaceTime in person time do we have with
people are we really prioritizing that
and are we modeling that for the next
Generation what would you have said to
him cuz what I ended up saying to him
because it really took me off guard no
one had asked me that obviously in front
of a huge group of people I said to him
um what you've just
done do more of that and what I meant by
that is he had been so vulnerable and
open and I've come to learn that
vulnerability in and of itself is a
magnet not a repellent that we think it
is so I I said do more more of that but
I I thought maybe that's not the best
possible answer I could have given him I
love that answer that's a great answer I
also might have said um turn to the I
want everybody in this room to turn to
the person on your right and introduce
yourself to them and ask them about one
thing that they want you to know about
them because that's how you're going to
start making friends we don't do that
anymore yeah but we can you see they're
simple things it's not like you know
people say it feels so overwhelming how
do I make friends and they think they're
going to have to learn all these tactics
and techniques when really it's just
about be curious ask someone about
themselves and the people who are
receptive to that they might become your
friends people who aren't I'm not really
interested in them doesn't really matter
Lori we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're going to be leaving it for
oh oh this is a fantastic question if
you had 60 days left on
Earth what would be the first and last
thing that you'd
do hug my
son no
question it's simple for me there are so
many things that I would I would like to
do but I think that if you read maybe
you should talk to someone you'll see
that what I did was I made sure that I'm
already doing the things that I want to
do now instead of putting them off for
later so there's nothing that that I
would be doing in these 60 days that
would be drastically different from what
I'm doing now and I think that that's
where I'm trying to get people in
therapy is to live the life that you
want to be living now so that you don't
when you get these questions about if
you only had 60 days left you're not
like I would do things entirely
differently why what are you waiting for
we shouldn't have to wait L thank you so
much thank you for writing a book
there's this quote on the front of the
book which I think perfectly
encapsulates how many people people will
feel if they get this book which is
rarely has a book challenged me to see
myself in an entirely new light and was
at the same time laugh out loud funny
and utterly absorbing it's a quote by
ktie coric on the front of the book and
the remarkable thing about all of your
work is that it's both so incredibly
accessible but it it's so clearly built
on real world experiences that I think
so many people can relate to and you
really tend to focus on the fundamentals
of a problem not the things that just
appear on the surface and an ability to
get to the fundamental of the problem I
think um is a really magical thing to be
able to do and I just wish there was you
know I would I wish you could be
everyone's therapist but I think the
book can be if you can't be because you
only have a certain amount of time in
the day it's really really remarkable
the mission that you're run and how many
people you're serving by your column by
your podcast by the books that you've
written um and everything that you
continue to do thank you so much my
pleasure thank
you let's talk about Zoe who you may
know because they're a sponsor of this
podcast and I'm an investor in the
company you guys know health is my
number one priority Zoe's growth story
has been absolutely incredible so far
they're doing science at a scale that
I've never seen before because of their
members and recent breakthroughs in
research they can now continue to offer
the most scientifically Advanced gut
health test on the market previously the
test allowed them to analyze 30 bacteria
types in your gut but now thanks to new
science they've identified a 100
bacteria types this is a huge step
forward and there's nothing else that's
available even close to it on the market
at all so to find out more and to get
started on your Zoe Journey visit
zoe.com
stepen you can use my exclusive code
ceo1 for 10% off don't tell anybody
about that okay just for you
[Music]
guys
ah